# Algorithmically Generated Maze

This Python code uses Prim's Algorithm to algorithmically generate a Perfect Maze.
The maze is generated by running the maze.py file, and outputted using escape codes for colour, to the terminal.

**Perfect Maze**: A maze where any two cells can be joined by a unique path.


## How do we achieve a Perfect Maze
To achieve this quality of maze; I resorted to implementing Prim's Algorithm. This algorithm, documented in this baeldung article, connects each cell of the graph. The algorithm iteratively picks the lowest-weight connection that links a new-node to the set of visited nodes.

## Explanation of the code
The code consists of 2 files. The maze.py file and the Matrix.py file.

The matrix.py file is concerned with the maintenance of an *adjacency matrix*. An Adjacency Matrix is a useful way to represent the Graph data structure and the relationships between nodes. The Matrix class consists of a constructor, and methods related to creating/removing connections between nodes, as well as displaying the adjacency matrix.

## Intentions of this project
This project was written with the intention of challenging myself in my Pythonic and algorithmic ability. It has been an enjoyable experience featuring multiple left turns and major changes in approach.

I would recommend this project idea to those curious about sharpening their already capable skills and wanting to avoid the cliche of independantly building a game. The project pushes you, by requiring you to lay-out and quantise your thought process, without being overwhelming.